# Object Token

Object Token is a kind of non-fungible token on EOS.

The goal of this proposal is to resolve the following drawbacks of
ERC721 and the NFT design for EOS
(https://github.com/unicoeos/eosio.nft):

* the NFT token contract assumes that the tokens are countable and are
  of the same type (all Cryptokitties are served by one contract, all
  objects of some other kind are served by a different contract), and
  the user associates the name of the contract with the meaning of the
  token.

* The 64-bit identifier of NFT token is not linked with the token
  contents, except in the contract memory.



## Object nature

Content of an object is understood as an abstract piece of data (most
likely in JSON format) tha describes a virtual or physical object in the
outside world.

The content data is retrievable via one of P2P networks, such
as IPFS or BitTorrent.

The content must contain a cryptographic signature of its origin. This
can be done in a form of PGP signed message, or an SSL-signed object,
packed together with the certificate chain (feasibility and format yet
to be identified).

The Object Token smart contract is serving the following purposes
related to the objects:

* Ownership. Like any other token, every object belongs to one and only
  one EOS account. Depending on real-world interpretation, this may mean
  a legal ownership of a real property.

* Authenticity. The smart contract provides the means for any external
  party to verify the origin of an object.

* Uniqueness. The smart contract guarantees that the same object would
  not be duplicated and assigned to a different owner.

The object identifier is the SHA256 of its content. This provides the
benefit of self-reference: you can store the file on your disk or in a
database, and there's a way to quickly verify its ownership in the
blockchain.


## Object properties

The properties of an object are immutable.

* `id`: a 256bit integer equal to SHA256 of the object content;

* `uri`: a link that identifies a way of retrieving the object content
  (via IPFS or BitTorrent);

* `origin`: a string that identifies a type of identity, and the
  identity itself of the origin. For example,
  `pgp:cc32d9@gmail.com#https://pgp.mit.edu/` identifies that my public
  key may be found on a specified public key server. origin strings are
  stored in a separate multi-index table, and objects refer to 64-bit
  indexes of origins.

* `validatedby`: EOS account of a trusted entity that has validated the
  object contents and properties.

* `flags`: a 16-bit integer: bit 0 indicates if the object is
  transferable, and bit 1 allows destroying the object.


## Actions

Action names are different from those of `eosio.token` by intent, as
they have nothing to do with standard token operations.

* `addvalidator(account)`: the contract owner assigns a number of
  trusted validators for object contents.

* `delvalidator(account)`: the contract owner can undelegate the
  validation rights from an account. This is a disruptive operation, as
  all objects that are validated will need re-validation by another
  account. Until that happens, the objects are nontransferable.

* `regorigin(owner, origin)`: anyone can register an origin string, and
  the owner pays for RAM. The origin ID is generated by taking first 48
  bits of transaction hash.

* `new(owner, id, uri, originid, flags)`: the owner creates a new
  object, and allocates RAM for it. Until the object is validated, it
  cannot be transferred.

* `validate(validator, id)`: the validator confirms that the object is
  what it claims to be and its origin and signature are correct.

* `move(from, to, id, memo)`: The owner transfers the ownership to
  another account. This is analogous to `transfer` action in
  `eosio.token`.

* `destroy(owner, id)`: The owner can destroy the object at any time,
  thus releasing the ownership.


## Use cases

All kinds of right to use can be implemented with the Object Token
contract. The rights can be permanent or temporary, and they can span
digital and real-life objects. Also PGP signature is something that is
already recognized by legacy technology players, so it would simplify
the adoption and integration into legal contracts.







## Copyright and License

Copyright 2019 cc32d9@gmail.com

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License.

http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

